h1. Installing Git

Before we can start playing with Git, we'll have to install it. I'll quickly cover installing Git on Linux, Mac and Windows.  I will not get into really fine detail, because others have done that much better, but I will give you an overview and links as to where to find more detailed instructions on each platform.

For any of these examples, you can find a link to the most current Git source code at "git.or.cz":http://git.or.cz/.

I would recommend compiling from source if possible, simply because Git is lately making big strides in usability, so more current versions may be a bit easier to use.

h2. Installing on Linux

If you are installing from source, it will go something like the standard:

shell. $ wget http://kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/git-1.5.4.4.tar.bz2
$ tar jxpvf git-1.5.4.4.tar.bz2
$ cd git-1.5.4.4
$ make prefix=/usr all doc info
$ sudo make prefix=/usr install install-doc install-info

If you are running Ubuntu or another Debian based system, you can run

shell. $ apt-get install git-core

or on yum based systems, you can often run:

shell. $ yum install git-core


h2. Installing on Mac

You are likely going to want to install Git without the asciidoc dependency because it is a pain to install.   Other than that, what you basically need is Curl and Expat.  With the exception of the Leopard binary OS X installer, you will also need the Developer Tools installed.  If you don't have the OS X install discs anymore, you can get the tools from the 
"Apple Website":http://developer.apple.com/tools/


h3. Mac 10.4 - Tiger

There are some requirements you'll have to install before you can compile Git.  Expat can be installed roughly like this:

shell. curl -O http://surfnet.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/expat/expat-2.0.1.tar.gz
tar zxvf expat-2.0.1.tar.gz 
cd expat-2.0.1
./configure --prefix=/usr/local
make
make check
sudo make install
cd ..

Then download and compile Git as per the Linux instructions.

However, if you want an easier path, you can use the excellent MacPorts software.  To install MacPorts, simply follow the instructions on the 
"MacPorts Homepage":http://www.macports.org/, and then just run :

shell. $ sudo port install git-core

For an in depth tutorial on installing on 10.4, see 
"this article":http://blog.kineticweb.com/articles/2007/08/26/compiling-git-for-mac-os-x-10-4-10-intel

note. If you hope to use Git with an existing Subversion repository, pass the @+svn@ flag to @port@. This will build Subversion and the necessary Perl interfaces for Subversion as well.

h3. Mac 10.5 - Leopard

The easiest way to install is most likely the "Git OSX Installer":http://code.google.com/p/git-osx-installer/, which you can get from Google Code, and has just recently been linked to as the official Mac version on the Git homepage.  Just download and run the DMG from the website.

If you want to compile from source, all the requirements are installed with the developer CD. You can just download the Git source and compile pretty easily if the developer tools are installed.

Finally, MacPorts is also an easy option if you have that installed.

For an in-depth tutorial on installations under Leopard, see "this article":http://blog.kineticweb.com/articles/2007/10/30/compiling-git-for-mac-os-x-leopard-10-5

h2. Windows

There are two options on Windows currently, but the popular one is "MSysGit":http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/, which installs easily and can be run on the Windows command line.  Simply download the exe file from the "downloads list":http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/downloads/list, execute it and follow the on-screen instructions.



