h2. Log - the Commit History

So, now we have all this history in our Git repository.  So what?  What can we do with it?  How can we see this history?

sidebar. c4-git-log.textile

The answer is the very powerful @git log@ command.  The @log@ command can show you nearly anything you want to know about your commit history.  Also, since the entire history is stored locally, it's really fast compared with most other SCM systems, especially if your repository is packed (see the "Care and Feeding" section).

If you just run _git log_, you will get output like this:

shell. git-log.txt

This will show you the SHA-1 of each commit, the committer and date of the commit, and the full message, starting from the last commit on your current branch and going backward in reverse chronological order (so if there are multiple parents, it just squishes them together, interleaving the commits ordered by date)

h3. Formatting Log Output

The default format takes up a lot of space though, so there are ways to limit and format this output differently.  @--pretty@ is a useful option for formatting the output in different ways. 

For example, we can list the commit SHA-1s and the first line of the message with @--pretty=oneline@:

shell. git-log-oneline.txt

With @--pretty@, you can choose between _oneline_, _short_, _medium_, _full_, _fuller_, _email_, _raw_ and _format:(string)_, where (string) is a format you specify with variables (ex: @--format:"%an added %h on %ar"@ will give you a bunch of lines like "Scott Chacon added @f1cc9df@ 4 days ago").

break. x

h3. Filtering Log Output

There are also a number of options for filtering the log output.  You can specify the maximum number of commits you want to see with @-n@, you can limit the range of dates you want to see commits for with @--since@ and @--until@, you can filter it on the author or committer, text in the commit message and more.  Here is an example showing at most 30 commits between yesterday and a month ago by me :

shell. git log -n 30 --since="1 month ago" --until=yesterday --author="schacon"

* "git log":http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-log.html