h2. Browsing Git

Git also gives you access to a number of lower level tools that can be used to browse the repository, inspect the status and contents of any of the objects, and are generally helpful for inspection and debugging.

h3. Showing Objects

The 'git show' command is really useful for presenting any of the objects in a very human readable format.  Running this command on a file will simply output the contents of the file.  Running it on a tree will just give you the filenames of the contents of that tree, but none of it's subtrees.  Where it's most useful is using it to look at commits.

h4. Showing Commits

If you call it on a tree-ish that is a commit object, you will get simple information about the commit (the author, message, date, etc) and a diff of what changed between that commit and it's parents.

shell. git-show-commit.txt

h4. Showing Trees

Instead of the 'git show' command, it's generally more useful to use the lower level 'git ls-tree' command to view trees, because it gives you the shas of all the blobs and trees that it points to.

shell. git-lstree1.txt

You can also run this command recursively, so you can see all the subtrees as well.  This is a great way to get the sha of any blob anywhere in the tree without having to walk it one node at a time.  

shell. git-lstree2.txt

The '-t' makes it also show the shas of the subtrees themselves, rather than just all the blobs.

h4. Showing Blobs

Lastly, you may want to extract the contents of individual blobs.  The 'cat-file' command is an easy way to do that, and can also serve to let you know what type of object a sha is, if you happen to not know.  It is sort of a catch-all command that you can use to inspect objects.

shell. git-catfile.txt

With those basic commands, you should be able to explore and inspect any object in any git repository relatively easily.

* "git show":http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-show.html
* "git ls-tree":http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-ls-tree.html
* "git cat-file":http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-cat-fileß.html
