h2. Simple Merging

sidebar. c6-branch-merge.textile

So now we want to move the changes in our @newfunc@ branch back into our @master@ branch and remove it.  This will require us merging one branch into another.  Since we're already in our @master@ branch, we'll merge in the @newfunc@ branch like this:

shell. $ git merge newfunc

Easy peasy.  We can see that the @simplegit.rb@ file now has four new lines and the @README@ file was auto-merged.

Now we can get rid of our 'newfunc' branch with a simple:

shell. $ git branch -d newfunc
Deleted branch newfunc.

h3. Resolving Conflicts

That was a fairly simple problem, but what if we branch our code and then edit the same place in a file in different ways in each branch?  In that case, we'll get a conflict when we try to merge them back together.  Git is not too aggressive in trying to resolve conflicts, since you don't want it to make assumptions that are not necessarily correct, so bugs aren't introduced without your knowledge.

Let's say that we created a @versioning@ branch and then modified the version in the @Rakefile@ to different versions in both the new branch and the @master@ branch, then tried to merge them together.

shell. merge-conflict.txt

It tells us that there was a conflict and so the new commit object was not created.  We will have to merge the conflicted file manually and then commit it again.  The output tells us the files that had conflicts, in this case it was the @Rakefile@.

ruby. rakefile.rb

We can see that in the @master@ branch, the version was changed to @0.1.2@ and in the @versioning@ branch, the same line was changed to @0.2.0@.  All we have to do is choose which one is correct and remove the rest of the lines, like so:

ruby. rakefile-post.rb

Now we add and commit that file, and we're good.

shell. $ git add Rakefile 
$ git commit -m 'fixed conflict'
Created commit 47c668a: fixed conflict

h3. Undoing a Merge

Assume we have gone through some massive merge because someone on your team hasn't committed in a while, or you have a branch that was created some time ago but hasn't been rebasing and you want to pull it in.  So you try to @git merge old_branch@ it and you get conflict after conflict and it is just too much trouble to deal with and you just want to undo it all.

This is where @git reset@ comes in.  To reset your working directory and index back to what it was before you tried the merge, simply run:

shell. $ git reset --hard HEAD

The @--hard@ makes sure both your index file and working directory are changed to match what it used it be. By default it will only reset your index, leaving the partially merged files in your working directory.  If you happen to have worked through it all and committed, then decided that it was a mistake because all of your tests break or something, you can still go back (and throw away that commit) by running:

shell. $ git reset --hard ORIG_HEAD

This is only helpful if you want to undo the latest change or changes.  If you happen to commit again then decide that you want to keep the latest commit, but undo a commit that was added sometime before that, you'll need to use @git revert@, which is a bit too dangerous to cover here.

* "git branch":http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-branch.html
* "git merge":http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-merge.html
* "git reset":http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-reset.html
* "git revert":http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-revert.html
